Information about Nikita.
Date_of_birth: 21.09.1987
Family_status: married to Kseniia Parfenova, has no children, has 2 cats
Citizenship: Russian
Languages: Russian (native), English (Upper-intermediate, B2), Serbian (Basic)
Current_location: Belgrade, Serbia
Link_to_download_CV: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VMiAdPOW4DnRTsVOPiB_JaNcO7R150x1/view?usp=sharing
Email: nikyparfenov@gmail.com
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/nikita-parfenov-0a798030/
Phone_number: +381-62-9795-622
Github: https://github.com/NikyParfenov
Telegram: https://t.me/whiteammonite
Serbian_residence_permit: up to 26.10.2026
Hobbies: travel, active leisure, sailing, snowboarding, skiing, roller-skiing, chess, riichi-mahjong.
Education: BSC (2004-2008) and MSc (2008-2010) in physics at Tomsk State University (Tomsk, Russia); MSc (2010-2011) in petroleum engineering at Heriot-Watt University (Edinburgh, Scotland); retraining program (2020-2021) in artificial intelligence (Machine Learning, Statistics, Recommendation Systems, Deep Learning, Computer Vision, Natural Language Processing) at online courses GeekBrains (Moscow, Russia); and different courses: AWS cloud practitioner foundational, Coursera (SQL for Data Science, TensorFlow Developer, Deeap Learning, Econometrics, Machine Learning), Education for company trainers and mentors (internal Gazprom-neft training).
Skills_summary: Nikita worked a lot with linear and tree models as from analytical side, as from machine learning side. As far as deep learning he has started to work with it since 2021. He used deep learning for table data (in Gazprom and Novolypetsk steel company), computer vision he used only in hid academic period and for some simple cases, LLM he has been using in InData Labs since March of 2023. His current stack is: Python (numpy, pandas, scipy, plotly, matplotlib, seaborn, scikit-learn, sarimax, xgboost, catboost, lightgbm, shap, optuna, pytorch, keras/tensorflow, requests, beautifulsoup4; and a bit familiar with: scrapy, django, fastapi), Large Language Models, OpenAI (Whisper, GPT-3.5, GPT-4), Huggingface (Flair, T5, GPT-j, GPT-neo, Pythia,  Dolly2, miniGPT, Llama2), R (shiny, plotly, visNetwork, mapdeck), YOLO, ControlNet, RStudio, Jupyter, Git, Docker, SQL, Jira, Confluence, a bit familiar with C++ (hasn't used it for a long time).
Area_of_interests: Deep Learning, Computer Vision, Large Language Models, Python back-end development.
Work_Experience:
- During university years (in Tomsk State University) he conducted students practice in the field of computer science (2009-2010).
- During university years (in Tomsk State University) he has been engaging in scientific and research activities (2006-2010) at the laboratory of computer simulation at the Institute of Strength Physics and Materials Science Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of Science, where he has written his MSc dissertation work. He has worked with simulation (by using C++) of molecular systems and investigated the behaviour of these systems in conditions of different extreme loadings.
- After the second education (in Heriot-Watt University) Nikita has worked in different Russian oil companies: Tomsk oil and gas research and design institute (Rosneft), Gazprom-neft scientific and technical center, Zarubezhneft-productino Kharyaga, Gazpromneft GEO. He worked in upstream area as both technical specialist - data analyst (for about 6 years) and different product & project manager positions (for about 4 years) from 2011 to 2021 years. The work has been connected with data analysis of drilled boreholes, built regression models of rock properties, Bayes classification models of rocks and fluids, probabilistic oil & gas reserves estimation, production forecast (time-series) and economic profitability but approaches were more analytical neither ML (the kernel of equations selected manually). The total amount of fields he dealt with were more than 30. He worked a lot with excel, python and with special industry software. All his projects he defended in front of company managers, bosses or in the State Committee of Reserves that allowed him to improved presentational skills. During his manager experience, he successfully estimated about 10 fields, but the major achievement is estimation of regional model with the area of 900 thousand squared kilometers (resources, recovered reserves, economic profitability etc). As a result few Arctic field has been bought by the company for further exploration and development. In the time of working in oil & gas area he had cooperative projects with IBM that concerned to ML and decided to deep dive in machine learning area. In addition, during his work in scientific and technical center of Gazprom-neft Nikita was the author of few internal courses for company employees.
- He passed different online courses and in 2021 started to work in Gazprom as Data Scientist. He worked with prediction of gas production, gas consumption and transportation optimisation via gas-pipelines. He built PoC of web-dashboard of Russian gas system. Technology stack contains python (scikit-learn, sarimax, prophet, tensor flow, prophet), R (shiny, plotly, visNetwork, mapdeck).
- In 2022 he changed the area form energy sector to metallurgical and stated to work as Data Scientist in Novolypetsk steel company. He mainly dealt with coke-chemical production optimisation and a bit with volume estimation of coal heaps by point clouds from UAV/LIDARS. The main result of his job was the new version (v.4) of coke prediction model. The problem of previous model was concerned with periodical degrading of the accuracy that has been solved in new version. The stack was python (scikit-learn, xgboost, lightgbm, catboost, pytorch), SQL, Gitlab, Jira, Confluence.
- In the August of 2022 he started to work as software engineer (data scientist) in Orion Innovation (Mera Serbia) and in the autumn relocated to Serbia. In this company he worked with data analysis and build model for energy consumption prediction for water heaters. The stack is python (scikit-learn, xgboost, lightgbm, catboost, pytorch, sarimax), AWS (athena, sage-maker, s3), Docker, Github, Jira, Confluence.
- Since March of 2023 in addition to Orion Innovation he started to work in InData Labs (AI consulting company). In this company he communicates a lot with clients about their needs, creates product architect solutions and estimates scopes of projects like ML, RecSys, Computer Vision, NLP-LLM, Image AI Generation. He works a lot with Large Language Models: chat building, entity retrieval, document vectorisation and similarity search. Completed projects: virtual site assistant for IT consulting company that asks user required information, shows similar company use cases and suggests a call with specific salesman; PoC of AI business helper, that recommend ho to improve the user business relying on benchmarks and best practises; Voice system that retrieves required information for CRM system and asks missed fields; took part in building prototype with building on-premise chat and tuning own LLM (GPT-j + Dolly2). The stack is python (pytorch), OpenAI (GPT-3.5, GPT-4, Whisper), Huggingface (GPT-j, GPT-neo, Pythia, Dolly2, Llama2, MiniGPT), ControlNet (Stable Diffusion), AWS (EC2, S3, RDS, Lambda, SageMaker), Docker, Gitlab, Jira, Confluence.